---
layout: default
title: Installing and Running
---

h2(#overview). Overview

This page describes how to perform a build of the Yahoo! Distribution of Hadoop, which is based on Apache Hadoop.  Questions can be directed to the user community at ydoh-users@yahoogroups.com. 

h2(#platform). Platform Requirements

Hadoop runs on Linux, Solaris, and Windows. Yahoo uses RedHat Enterprise Linux Server 5.4. 

h3(#java). Java

Hadoop requires either the 32 or 64 bit variants of Sun JDK. Yahoo currently runs 32 and 64 bit "JDK 6.0u12":http://java.sun.com/products/archive/j2se/6u12/ on its clusters. (The NameNode and JobTracker run 64 bit, the slaves run 32 bit.) Please ensure the @JAVA_HOME@ environment variable is set to the correct directory.

After installing Java, you must install support for stronger encryption. Download the "necessary files":https://cds.sun.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/CDS-CDS_Developer-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProductDetail-Start?ProductRef=jce_policy-6-oth-JPR@CDS-CDS_Developer from Sun. 

bc. % unzip jce_policy-6.zip
% cp -f jce/*.jar $JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/
% chmod 444 $JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/*.jar

You need a copy of "Java 5":http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index_jdk5.jsp to run Forrest. Unfortunately, Java 6 can not be used to run Forrest.

h3(#ant). Ant

Hadoop is built using Ant. Download Ant from "Apache":http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi. Hadoop requires a recent version of Ant, such as 1.8.1. 

bc. export ANT_HOME=<build tool directory>/apache-ant-1.8.1
export PATH=$ANT_HOME/bin:$PATH

h3(#forrest). Forrest

The documentation for Hadoop is generated using Forrest. You can download it from "Apache":http://forrest.apache.org/mirrors.cgi#closest.

h3(#xerces). Xerces C

You need version 2.8 of Xerces C installed. It is available from "Apache":http://xerces.apache.org/xerces-c/download.cgi. To build it, use (make sure that CFLAGS and CXXFLAGS are not set!):

bc. % export XERCESCROOT=<build tool directory>/xerces-c-src_2_8_0
% cd $XERCESCROOT/src/xercesc
% ./runConfigure -rlinux
% make

h3(#eclipse). Eclipse

You need to install Eclipse SDK, so that the Eclipse plugin can be built. Eclipse is available from "eclipse.org":http://www.eclipse.org/.

h3(#kerberos). Kerberos

The new security features depend on having a working Kerberos installation. Kerberos is available from "MIT":http://web.mit.edu/Kerberos/dist/index.html. Yahoo runs MIT Kerberos 1.6.1. For RedHat, do:

bc. % yum install krb5-server

Configure Kerberos by editing /etc/krb5.conf to add your realm (eg. HADOOP.COM) and hosts (eg. kdc.hadoop.com).  It is recommended to turn off UDP for Kerberos. To disable UDP, change the @udp_preference@ to 1 in the libdefaults section. It should look roughly like:

bc.. [logging]
 default = FILE:/var/log/krb5libs.log
 kdc = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
 admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log

[libdefaults]
 default_realm = HADOOP.COM
 dns_lookup_realm = false
 dns_lookup_kdc = false
 ticket_lifetime = 24h
 forwardable = yes
 udp_preference_limit = 1

[realms]
 HADOOP.COM = {
  kdc = kdc.hadoop.com:88
  admin_server = kdc.hadoop.com:749
  default_domain = hadoop.com
 }

[domain_realm]
 .hadoop.com = HADOOP.COM
 hadoop.com = HADOOP.COM

[appdefaults]
 pam = {
   debug = false
   ticket_lifetime = 36000
   renew_lifetime = 36000
   forwardable = true
   krb4_convert = false
 }

p. And edit /var/kerberos/krb5kdc/kdc.conf to add your realm.

bc.. [kdcdefaults]
 v4_mode = nopreauth
 kdc_ports = 0
 kdc_tcp_ports = 88

[realms]
 HADOOP.COM = {
  acl_file = /var/kerberos/krb5kdc/kadm5.acl
  dict_file = /usr/share/dict/words
  admin_keytab = /var/kerberos/krb5kdc/kadm5.keytab
  supported_enctypes = des3-hmac-sha1:normal arcfour-hmac:normal des-hmac-sha1:normal des-cbc-md5:normal des-cbc-crc:normal des-cbc-crc:v4 des-cbc-crc:afs3
 }

p. Create your key database:

bc. % /usr/kerberos/sbin/kdb5_util create -s

Finally, set the KDC to be run automatically when the system starts.

bc. % /sbin/chkconfig krb5kdc on
% /etc/rc.d/init.d/krb5kdc start

See the Kerberos documentation for setting up user and admin
principals.

h2(#obtain). Obtaining the Source

The source code can be downloaded from "github":http://github.com/yahoo/hadoop-common/tarball/yahoo-hadoop-0.20.104.1, using:

bc. % wget http://github.com/yahoo/hadoop-common/tarball/yahoo-hadoop-0.20.104.1
% tar xzvf yahoo-hadoop-0.20.104.1.tgz

h3(#jsvc). JSVC

The DataNodes need to use restricted ports for their data pipeline.  Rather than run the entire DataNode as root, we use jsvc to run the setup as root. Download the binary from "Apache":http://www.apache.org/dist/commons/daemon/binaries/1.0.2/linux/. Move the jsvc executable into the @yahoo-hadoop-0.20.104.1/bin@

h2(#build). Building

Although Hadoop is mostly written in the Java Programming Language, there are a number of native libraries written in C and C++ that need to be compiled.  The following build instructions are taken from "HowToRelease Wiki":http://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/HowToRelease and describe how to build a tar file containing documentation and 32-bit  or 64-bit native libraries on Linux.  Before running the following commands, you will need to setup your build machine according to "Native Hadoop Wiki":http://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/NativeHadoop.

In the yahoo-hadoop-0.20.104.1 directory, create a file named build.properties. It contains pointers to the tools that are necessary to build Hadoop.

bc. java5.home=<build tool directory>/jdk1.5.0_22
forrest.home=<build tool directory>/apache-forrest-0.8
ant.home=<build tool directory>/apache-ant-1.8.1
xercescroot=<build tool directory>/xerces-c-src_2_8_0
eclipse.home=<build tool directory>/eclipse
hadoop.conf.dir=<final hadoop configuration directory>

Build the release:

bc.. % export JAVA_HOME=<build tool directory>/jdk1.6.0._12
% export CFLAGS=-m32 (or 64)
% export CXXFLAGS=-m32 (or 64)

% ant -Dversion=0.20.104.1 -Dcompile.native=true \
  -Dcompile.c++=true -Dlibhdfs=1 -Dlibrecordio=true \
  clean task-controller tar

p. Once build above is complete, you will find a tar file in the build
directory.

h2(#user). Create the server users

h3(#accounts). Unix Accounts

Create Unix accounts to run HDFS and MapReduce. 

bc. % adduser hdfs
% adduser mapred 

It is convenient to add them both to a @hadoop@ group.  Additionally, the @mapred@ user must be the only member of a @mapred@ group to enable secure use of the task launcher.

h3(#dirs). Create the logs and pid directories

Create the log and pid directories with permission only to the hadoop users (hdfs and mapred).

bc. % mkdir /var/local/hadoop
% mkdir /var/local/hadoop/{hdfs,mapred,logs,pid}
% chgrp -R hadoop /var/local/hadoop
% chown hdfs:hadoop /var/local/hadoop/hdfs
% chown mapred:hadoop /var/local/hadoop/mapred
% chmod 755 /var/local/hadoop
% chmod 700 /var/local/hadoop/hdfs
% chmod 755 /var/local/hadoop/mapred
% chmod 770 /var/local/hadoop/{logs,pid}

h3(#keytab). Creating the KeyTabs

For each NameNode or Secondary NameNode, you need a @host/<hostname>@ and @hdfs/<hostname>@ a hostname-specific principal. For the JobTracker host, you need a @mapred/<hostname>@ principal. Finally, the slaves need @hdfs/<hostname>@ and @mapred/<hostname>@.  Use kadmin to create the Kerberos principals (replacing nn and jt.hadoop.com):

bc. % sudo /usr/kerberos/sbin/kadmin.local
kadmin.local: addprinc -randkey host/nn.hadoop.com 
kadmin.local: addprinc -randkey hdfs/nn.hadoop.com
kadmin.local: xst -k hdfs.keytab hdfs/nn.hadoop.com \
                  host/nn.hadoop.com
kadmin.local: addprinc -randkey mapred/jt.hadoop.com 
kadmin.local: xst -k mapred.keytab \
                  mapred/jt.hadoop.com

On each host, put hdfs.keytab and mapred.keytab into /var/local/hadoop owned and only readable by hdfs and mapred respectively.

bc. % cp hdfs.keytab mapred.keytab /var/local/hadoop/
% chown hdfs:hadoop /var/local/hadoop/hdfs.keytab
% chown mapred:hadoop /var/local/hadoop/mapred.keytab
% chmod 500 /var/local/hadoop/*.keytab

h2(#install). Installing Hadoop

Expand the tarball as root. It is important to change the permissions of the task-controller to enable secure launching of tasks as the user.

bc. % tar xzvf hadoop-0.20.104.1.tar.gz
% cd hadoop-0.20.104.1
% chown root:mapred bin/task-controller
% chmod 6550 bin/task-controller

h2(#conf). Configuration

Untar the sample configuration into the correct location:

bc. % tar xzvf <hadoop build direction>/sample-conf.tgz

First, edit @$HADOOP_CONF_DIR/hadoop-env.sh@, which is used to specify the locations of required components.

Edit @$HADOOP_CONF_DIR/core-site.xml@ to point to the correct hosts. I suggest defining the local realm and hosts as separate variables that are referenced by the other values.

Look through the hdfs-site.xml and mapred-site.xml to make any desired changes.

The task controller uses its own configuration. This configuration file must be owned by root @$HADOOP_CONF_DIR/taskcontroller.cfg@.

bc. mapred.local.dir=/var/local/hadoop/mapred
mapreduce.tasktracker.group=mapred
hadoop.log.dir=/var/local/hadoop/logs

h2(#startup). Starting up Servers

The NameNode should be started up first as the hdfs user. Followed by all of the DataNodes as root. Finally, the JobTracker and TaskTrackers should be started as mapred.

bc. % ssh -l hdfs nn.hadoop.com namenode -format
% ssh -l hdfs nn.hadoop.com hadoop-daemon.sh start namenode
% ssh -l root slave1.hadoop.com hadoop-daemon.sh start datanode

Create the user home directories in HDFS:

bc. % kinit -kt /var/local/hadoop/hdfs.keytab hdfs/nn.hadoop.com@HADOOP.COM
% $HADOOP_HOME/bin/hadoop fs -mkdir /user/mapred
% $HADOOP_HOME/bin/hadoop fs -chmod 755 /user
% $HADOOP_HOME/bin/hadoop fs -chown mapred:mapred /user/mapred

Add user home directories, too...

% ssh -l mapred jt.hadoop.com hadoop-daemon.sh start jobtracker
% ssh -l mapred slave1.hadoop.com hadoop-daemon.sh start tasktracker

h2(#addon). Additional add-ons

Additional tools are likely of interest. In particular,
* pig
* gpl compression codecs
* oozie

